=pod

=head1 NAME

FLTK::Color - Color-related functions

=head1 Description

C<FLTK::Color> isn't a class but a typedef so it has no constructor or
methods.

All related functions can be accessed by their full names (ex:
C<FLTK::color( )>) or you can import them into your namespace with FLTK's
C<:color> tag.

=head1 Functions

=over

=item C<FLTK::color ( NAME )>

Turn a string into a color. If C<NAME> is C<undef>, this returns
L<C<FLTK::NO_COLOR>|/"NO_COLOR">. Otherwise, it returns
L<C<FLTK::parsecolor ( ... )>|/"parsecolor( NAME, [ LENGTH ])">.

=item C<FLTK::parsecolor ( NAME, [ LENGTH ] )>

Turns a string into a color.

Recognized values are:

=over

=item C<S< >>

turns into L<C<NO_COLOR>|/"NO_COLOR">

=item C<0> - C<99>

Decimal fltk color number, only works for indexed color range

=item C<0xnnn>

Hex value of any fltk color number

=item C<rgb> or C<#rgb>

Three hex digits for rgb

=item C<rrggbb> or C<#rrggbb>

Two hex digits for each of rgb

=item C<rrggbbaa> or C<#rrggbbaa>

FLTK color number in hex

=item C<rrrgggbbb> or C<#rrrgggbbb>

Three hex digits for each of rgb

=item C<rrrrggggbbbb> or C<#rrrrggggbbbb>

Four hex digits for each of rgb

=item C<17 "web safe colors">

...as defined by CSS 2.1, these are maroon, red, orange, yellow, olive,
purple, fuchsia, white, lime, green, navy, blue, aqua, teal, black,
silver, and gray.

=back

All other strings return L<C<NO_COLOR>|/"NO_COLOR">.  If FLTK is compiled
to use X11, then C<XParseColor()> is tried.

If C<LENGTH> is defined, C<parsecolor( )> will only bother with C<LENGTH>
bytes. This allows you to parse a color out of the middle of a string.

=item C<FLTK::lerp( COLOR1, COLOR2, WEIGHT )>

Returns C<( 1 - WEIGHT ) * COLOR1 + WEIGHT * COLOR2> where C<WEIGHT> is a
float between C<0> and C<1>.

=item C<FLTK::inactive ( COLOR_FG, [ COLOR_BG ] )>

Same as
C<lerp( COLOR_FG, L<getbgcolor( )|/"FLTK::getbgcolor ( )">, 0.5 )> or, if
C<COLOR_BG> is defined C<lerp( COLOR_FG, COLOR_BG, 0.5 )>.

It grays out the color.

=item C<contrast( COLOR_FG, COLOR_BG )>

Returns C<COLOR_FG> if FLTK decides it can be seen well when drawn
against C<COLOR_BG>. Otherwise, it returns either
L<C<FLTK::BLACK>|/FLTK::BLACK> or L<C<FLTK::WHITE>|/FLTK::WHITE>.

=item C<split_color ( COLOR, R, G, B )>

Sets C<R>, C<G>, and C<B> to the C<8-bit> components of this C<COLOR>.
If it is an indexed color, they are looked up in the table, otherwise,
they are simply copied out of the color number.

=item C<set_color_index( INDEX, COLOR )>

Set one of the indexed colors to the given C<RGB> color. C<INDEX> must be
in the range of C<0 - 255>, and C<COLOR> must be a non-indexed C<RGB>
color.

=item C<get_color_index( COLOR )>

Returns the C<RGB> form of C<COLOR>. If it is an indexed color, that
entry is returned. If it is an C<RGB> color, it is returned unchanged.

=item C<set_background( COLOR )>

LC<FLTK::GRAY75>|/FLTK::GRAY75> is replaced with the passed C<COLOR> and
all the other C<FLTK::GRAY\d\d> colors are replaced with a color ramp (or
sometimes a straight line) so that using them for highlighted edges of
raised buttons looks correct.

=item C<nearest_index ( COLOR )>

Find an indexed color in the range C<56 - 127> that is closest to this
color. If this is an indexed color, it is returned unchanged.

=back

=head1 Disclaimer

This document and the specification behind it are subject to change.
All modifications will be documented in the Changes file included with
this distribution.  All versions of this file can be found in the
project's git repository.

=head1 Author

Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org> - http://sankorobinson.com/

CPAN ID: SANKO

=head1 License and Legal

Copyright (C) 2009 by Sanko Robinson E<lt>sanko@cpan.orgE<gt>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of The Artistic License 2.0.  See the F<LICENSE>
file included with this distribution or
http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_license_2_0.  For
clarification, see http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_2_0_notes.

When separated from the distribution, all POD documentation is covered
by the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 License.  See
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/legalcode.  For
clarification, see http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/.

=for git $Id: Widget.pod 43c1956 2009-03-24 16:25:46Z sanko@cpan.org $ forgot=

=cut
