=pod

=head1 NAME

FLTK::Group - The base class for all FLTK containers

=head1 Description

The L<FLTK::Group|FLTK::Group> class is the FLTK container widget. It
maintains an array of child widgets. These children can themselves be any
widget including L<FLTK::Group|FLTK::Group>, nesting groups allows much
more control over layout and resize behavior. Nested groups are also
necessary to group radio buttons together.

By default L<FLTK::Group|FLTK::Group> preserves the positions and sizes
of all it's children, they do not move no matter what sizes or other
children are added or removed.

Setting L<C<resizable( )>|/"resizable ( )"> will change the layout
behavior so that it responds to resizing by moving or resizing the
children to fit. See below for details.

You may want to use an L<FLTK::Pack|FLTK::Pack> or a
L<FLTK::Scroll|FLTK::Scroll> to get other common layout behavior that can
respond to changes in the sizes of child widgets.

The most-used subclass of L<FLTK::Group|FLTK::Group> is
L<FLTK::Window|FLTK::Window>, all the rules about resizing apply to
windows. Setting L<C<resizable( )>|/"resizable ( )"> on a window will
allow the user to resize it. If you want different behavior (such as from
L<FLTK::Pack|FLTK::Pack>) for your window you should make the window have
that as a single resizable child that fills it.

L<FLTK::Menu|FLTK::Menu> is a subclass and thus all menus and browsers
are groups and the items in them are widgets.

=head1 Constructor

This class supports only one basic constructor.

=over

=item C<new ( x, y, w, h, [label = ''], [begin = 0] )>

Creates a new L<C<FLTK::Group>|FLTK::Group> widget using the given
position, size and label string. The default boxtype is
L<FLTK::NO_BOX|FLTK::Constants/NO_BOX>.

If C<begin> is C<true>, widgets created after this are added as a new child
of this group, and parent() is set to this group.

=back

=head1 Methods

C<FLTK::Button> is a subclass of L<C<FLTK::Widget>|FLTK::Widget>
and, in addition to the following methods, inherits those supported by
L<C<FLTK::Widget>|FLTK::Widget>.

=over

=item C<children (  )>

Returns how many child widgets this group has.

=item C>


=back

=head1 Disclaimer

This document and the specification behind it are subject to change.
All modifications will be documented in the Changes file included with
this distribution.  All versions of this file can be found in the
project's git repository.

=head1 Author

Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org> - http://sankorobinson.com/

CPAN ID: SANKO

=head1 License and Legal

Copyright (C) 2009 by Sanko Robinson E<lt>sanko@cpan.orgE<gt>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of The Artistic License 2.0.  See the F<LICENSE>
file included with this distribution or
http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_license_2_0.  For
clarification, see http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_2_0_notes.

When separated from the distribution, all POD documentation is covered
by the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 License.  See
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/legalcode.  For
clarification, see http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/.

=for git $Id$ for got=

=cut
