=pod

=head1 NAME

FLTK::RadioButton - A subclass of C<FLTK::CheckButton>

=head1 Description

This button turns the L<C<value( )>|FLTK::Button/"value ( VALUE )"> on
when clicked, and turns all other RadioButton widgets in the same group
off. It displays a round dot to show the user this.

You can control the color of the circle with
L<C<color( )>|FLTK::Widget/"color ( )"> and the color of the dot with
L<C<textcolor( )>|FLTK::Widget/"textcolor ( )">. You can make it draw
different colors when turned on by setting
L<C<selection_color( )>|FLTK::Widget/"selection_color ( )"> and
L<C<selection_textcolor( )>|FLTK::Widget/"selection_textcolor ( )">
on the widget (these are ignored if set in an inherited
L<C<style( )>|FLTK::Widget/"style ( )">).

If you want you can make any other button act like a
L<RadioButton|FLTK::RadioButton"> by doing C<type(Button::RADIO)> to it.
Be sure to lay out and decorate your interface so it is clear to the user
that they are radio buttons.

=head1 Constructor

This class supports only one basic constructor.

=over

=item C<new ( x, y, w, h, [label = ''] )>

The default constructor takes a value for x(), y(), w(), and h(), and an
optional value for label(). All subclasses must provide an identical
constructor in order to work with Fluid. They may also provide
alternative constructors.

If L<C<FLTK::Group::begin( )>|FLTK::Group/"begin ( )"> has been called,
this widget is added as a new child of that group, and parent() is set to
the group. If L<C<FLTK::Group::begin( )>|FLTK::Group/"begin ( )"> has not
been called, or L<C<FLTK::Group::end( )>|FLTK::Group/"end ( )"> has been
called, or L<C<FLTK::Group::current( 0 )>|FLTK::Group/"current ( )">,
then the parent() is set to C<undef>. In this case you must add the
widget yourself in order to see it.

=back

=head1 Methods

C<FLTK::RadioButton> is a sublcass of
L<C<FLTK::CheckButton>|FLTK::CheckButton> and inherits methods from
L<C<FLTK::CheckButton>|FLTK::CheckButton>.

=head1 Disclaimer

This document and the specification behind it are subject to change.
All modifications will be documented in the Changes file included with
this distribution.  All versions of this file can be found in the
project's git repository.

=head1 Author

Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org> - http://sankorobinson.com/

CPAN ID: SANKO

=head1 License and Legal

Copyright (C) 2009 by Sanko Robinson E<lt>sanko@cpan.orgE<gt>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of The Artistic License 2.0.  See the F<LICENSE>
file included with this distribution or
http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_license_2_0.  For
clarification, see http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_2_0_notes.

When separated from the distribution, all POD documentation is covered
by the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 License.  See
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/legalcode.  For
clarification, see http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/.

=for git $Id: Widget.pod d78cf2a 2009-03-22 03:21:33Z sanko@cpan.org $ forgot=

=cut
