=pod

=head1 NAME

FLTK::Widget - The base class for all FLTK Widgets

=head1 Description

The basic L<Widget|FLTK::Widget> draws an empty box() and the label(),
and ignores all events. This can be useful for making decorations or
providing areas that pop up a tooltip().

C<FLTK::Widget> is a subclass of L<C<FLTK::Rectangle>|FLTK::Rectangle>
and, as such, inherits all methods from that class.

=head1 Constructor

This class supports only one basic constructor.

=over

=item C<new ( x, y, w, h, [label = ''] )>

The default constructor takes a value for x(), y(), w(), and h(), and an
optional value for label(). All subclasses must provide an identical
constructor in order to work with Fluid. They may also provide
alternative constructors.

If L<C<FLTK::Group::begin( )>|FLTK::Group/"begin ( )"> has been called,
this widget is added as a new child of that group, and parent() is set to
the group. If L<C<FLTK::Group::begin( )>|FLTK::Group/"begin ( )"> has not
been called, or L<C<FLTK::Group::end( )>|FLTK::Group/"end ( )"> has been
called, or L<C<FLTK::Group::current( 0 )>|FLTK::Group/"current ( )">,
then the parent() is set to C<undef>. In this case you must add the
widget yourself in order to see it.

=back

=head1 Methods

C<FLTK::Widget> is a subclass of L<C<FLTK::Rectangle>|FLTK::Rectangle>
and, in addition to the following methods, inherits those supported by
L<C<FLTK::Rectangle>|FLTK::Rectangle>.

=over

=begin TODO

=item C<send ( event )>

This should be called to send events to the C<Widget>. It does a few
things:

=over

=item * It calculates L<event_x()>/L<event_y()> to be relative to the
widget. The previous values are restored before this returns.

=item * It makes sure the widget is active and/or visible if the event
requres this.

=item * If this is not the L<FLTK::belowmouse( )|FLTK/"belowmouse( )">
widget then it changes L<FLTK::MOVE|FLTK/MOVE> into
L<FLTK::ENTER|FLTK/ENTER> and turns L<FLTK::DND_DRAG|FLTK/DND_DRAG> into
L<FLTK::DND_ENTER|FLTK/DND_ENTER>. If this is the
L<FLTK::belowmouse( )|FLTK/"belowmouse( )"> widget then the opposite
conversion is done.

=item * For move, focus, and push events if C<handle( )> returns C<true>
it sets the L<FLTK::belowmouse( )|FLTK/"belowmouse( )"> or
L<FLTK::focus( )|FLTK/"focus( )"> or L<FLTK::pushed( )|FLTK/"pushed( )">
widget to reflect this.

=end TODO

=back

=head1 Disclaimer

This document and the specification behind it are subject to change.
All modifications will be documented in the Changes file included with
this distribution.  All versions of this file can be found in the
project's git repository.

=head1 Author

Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org> - http://sankorobinson.com/

CPAN ID: SANKO

=head1 License and Legal

Copyright (C) 2009 by Sanko Robinson E<lt>sanko@cpan.orgE<gt>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of The Artistic License 2.0.  See the F<LICENSE>
file included with this distribution or
http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_license_2_0.  For
clarification, see http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_2_0_notes.

When separated from the distribution, all POD documentation is covered
by the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 License.  See
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/legalcode.  For
clarification, see http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/.

=for git $Id: Widget.pod 43c1956 2009-03-24 16:25:46Z sanko@cpan.org $ forgot=

=cut
